README.md, before:

![software logo](codeFolder/www/phylomad.temp.png)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This repository was contributed by David Duchene

david.duchene[at]sydney.edu.au

23 May 2017

Introduction
------------

This introduces PhyloMAd, a software for easily-accessible assessment of phylogenetic model adequacy in a likelihood statistical framework.

Substitution models supported inlcude the JC, HKY, and GTR models, including gamma-distributed rates across sites with 4 discrete categories. Clock models supported include those implemented in BEAST 2.

The following are a set of examples of how to use PhyloMAd and a description of the output.

Download and package installation
---------------------------------

PhyloMAd requires that the R statistical computing language is installed. R is freely available from the R project website.

https://www.r-project.org/

Download and unzip the PhyloMAd repository from GitHub. This can be done by pressing the *Clone or download* button above or by typing the following in a bash shell. The later option assumes that the machine has git installed.

```coffee
git clone https://github.com/duchene/modadclocks.git
```

Double-click the PhyloMAd file according to the platform (runMac.command or runWin.vbs). This will install the R package *shiny* and its dependencies.

If you have difficulty opening the program, you might want to try opening a bash shell, setting your directory to the PhyloMAd folder and executing the R script by hand.

```coffee
cd pathToPyloMAd
Rscript phylomad.Rscript
```

Once you have opened PhyloMAd, select the model you wish to assess from the buttons at the left of the screen, and press the *Install required packages* button. This will install any other packages that might not yet be installed.

Basic assessment of substitution model adequacy
-----------------------------------------------



Advice on model adequacy based on simulations
---------------------------------------------




Basic assessment of clock model adequacy
----------------------------------------



Graphical output of results
---------------------------
It is strongly recommended to use qualitative checks of models using graphical analyses.

Commit message:

Removed MrBayes, automatised installation of all packages, fixed clock assessment bug

README.md, after:

![software logo](codeFolder/www/phylomad.temp.png)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This repository was contributed by David Duchene

david.duchene[at]sydney.edu.au

23 May 2017

Introduction
------------

This introduces PhyloMAd, a software for easily-accessible assessment of phylogenetic model adequacy in a likelihood statistical framework.

Substitution models supported inlcude the JC, HKY, and GTR models, including gamma-distributed rates across sites with 4 discrete categories. Clock models supported include those implemented in BEAST 2.

The following are a set of examples of how to use PhyloMAd and a description of the output.

Download and package installation
---------------------------------

PhyloMAd requires that the R statistical computing language is installed. R is freely available from the R project website.

https://www.r-project.org/

Download and unzip the PhyloMAd repository from GitHub. This can be done by pressing the *Clone or download* button above or by typing the following in a bash shell. The later option assumes that the machine has git installed.

```coffee
git clone https://github.com/duchene/modadclocks.git
```

Double-click the PhyloMAd file according to the platform (runMac.command or runWin.vbs). If needed, this will install all the required R packages. This might take several minutes.

If you have difficulty opening the program, you might want to try opening a bash shell, setting your directory to the PhyloMAd folder and executing the R script by hand.

```coffee
cd pathToPyloMAd
Rscript phylomad.Rscript
```

Once you have opened PhyloMAd, select the model you wish to assess from the buttons at the left of the screen, and press the *Install required packages* button. This will install any other packages that might not yet be installed.

Basic assessment of substitution model adequacy
-----------------------------------------------



Advice on model adequacy based on simulations
---------------------------------------------




Basic assessment of clock model adequacy
----------------------------------------



Graphical output of results
---------------------------
It is strongly recommended to use qualitative checks of models using graphical analyses.
