{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf680
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13640\viewh13240\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 Windows version of MrBayes 3.2
\b0 \
\
The Windows executable (32bit or 64bit) is the serial version of MrBayes. It runs on a single core and is primarily intended for users who want to get familiar with the program. It is going to be slow if you try to run a large analysis with many parallel chains. For such analyses, please use the MPI version of MrBayes on a Unix or MacIntosh machine or on a computer cluster.\
\
If you locate the executable and double-click it, the working directory will be the same directory where the executable is located. To change the directory used by MrBayes, use the "set" command. For instance, if you want to use a folder on the Desktop called "MyAnalyses" instead of the default folder, type "set dir=<path-to-my-desktop>\\MyAnalyses" in the MrBayes command window, where "<path-to-my-desktop>" is the path to your desktop directory.\
\
The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://code.google.com/p/beagle-lib/"}}{\fldrslt BEAGLE}} library dlls (v2.1) is bundled. You have to remove them if you already have BEAGLE installed (e.g., in "C:\\Program Files\\Common Files\\libhmsbeagle") to avoid conflicts. If you have a NVIDIA graphics card (GPU), MrBayes can make use of it through BEAGLE to significantly accelerate protein and codon analyses. To enable the use of your NVIDIA GPU, please {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx"}}{\fldrslt download}} and install the latest CUDA drivers for Windows.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Example files and documentation for MrBayes have been\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  included. For more information, see the MrBayes {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mrbayes.net"}}{\fldrslt web site}}.\
\
\

\b Troubleshooting\

\b0 \
1. mrbayes_x64.exe - System Error\
The program can't start because MSVCR120.dll is missing from your computer. Try reinstalling the program to fix this problem.\
\
You need Visual C++ Redistributable Package from Microsoft:\
http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40784\
}